## Introduction

Welcome to ggplot2, a powerful and flexible data visualization library that is part of the Tidyverse collection. ggplot2 allows you to create visually appealing and informative graphics by leveraging the Grammar of Graphics concept. This system offers a consistent and coherent way to represent data visually, empowering users to create complex plots with ease.

## Key Features

`Layered approach:` ggplot2 enables you to build graphics by layering components such as scales, coordinates, and facets.
`Customizability:` With a wide array of themes and settings, ggplot2 allows you to tailor plots according to your preferences and needs.
`Integration:` ggplot2 works seamlessly with other Tidyverse packages, making it an ideal choice for data analysis and visualization in R.

## Getting Started

To begin using ggplot2, you will need to install and load the package in your R environment. The easiest way to get ggplot2 is to install the whole `tidyverse`:
```r
install.packages("tidyverse")
library(tidyverse)
```

Alternatively, install just `ggplot2`:
```r
install.packages("ggplot2")
library(ggplot2)
```
Or the development version from GitHub:
```r
install.packages("pak")
pak::pak("tidyverse/ggplot2")
```

## Basic Concepts 

`Base R` has its own package and there are other useful packages you can add. They'll help you do almost anything you want with your data from making simple pie charts, to creating more complex visuals like interactive graphs and maps. General-purpose packages like `Plotly` let you do a wide range of visualization functions. Others like `RGL`, focus on specific solutions like 3D visuals. 

Some of the most popular include: 
- ggplot2
- Plotly 
- Lattice
- RGL
- Dygraphs
- Leaflet
- Highcharter
- Patchwork
- gganimate
- ggridges

Ggplot2 has a lot of benefits, for example you can create all different types of plots including Scatter plots, bar charts, adn line diagrams. You can change the colors, layout and dimensions of your plots and add text elements like titles, captions and labels.

## Core Concepts

- `aesthetics:` a visual property of an object in your plot. For example, in a scatter plot aesthetics include things like the size, shape or color of your data points. Think of an aesthetic as a connection or mapping between a visual feature in your plot and a variable in your data.
- `geoms:` refers to the geometric object used to represent your data. For example, you can use points to create a scatter plot, bars to create a bar chart, or lines to create a line diagram. You can choose a geom to fit the type of data you have. Points show the relationship between two quantitative variables. Bars show one quantitative variable varies across different categories.
- `facets:` let you display smaller groups or subsets of your data. With facets, you can create separate plots for all the variables in your dataset.
- `labels and annotations:` let you customize your plot. You can add text like titles, subtitles and captions to communicate the purpose of your plot or highlight important data.

## Creating a Basic Plot

Constructing a simple plot with ggplot2 involves specifying the data, aesthetic mappings, and geometric objects. To create a plot, follow these three steps: 
- start with the `ggplot` function and choose a `dataset` to work with 
- add a `geom_function` to display your data
- `map` the variables you want to plot in the argument of the `aes` function.

Here's an `example:`
```r
ggplot(data=<DATA>)+
  <GEOM_FUNCTION>(mapping=aes(<AESTHETIC MAPPINGS>))

ggplot(data = mpg)+ 
  geom_point(mapping = aes(x = displ, y = hwy))
```

In this example, the `'mpg'` dataset is used, and the points are mapped to the `'displ'` (engine size) and `'hwy'` (highway miles per gallon) variables.

`ggplot(data = mpg):` In ggplot2, you begin a plot with the `ggplot()` function. The `ggplot()` function creates a coordinate system that you can add layers to. The first argument of the ggplot function is the dataset to use in the plot. In this case, it’s `“mpg.”`

`+:` Then, you add a [“+”] symbol to add a new layer to your plot. You complete your plot by adding one or more layers to ggplot().

`geom_point():` Next, you choose a geom by adding a geom function. The `geom_point()` function uses points to create scatterplots, the `geom_bar` function uses bars to create bar charts, and so on. In this case, choose the geom_point function to create a scatter plot of points.

`(mapping = aes(x = displ, y = hwy)):` Each geom function in ggplot2 takes a mapping argument. This defines how variables in your dataset are mapped to visual properties. The mapping argument is always paired with the `aes()` function. The [x] and [y] arguments of the aes function specify which variables to map to the x-axis and the y-axis of the coordinate system. In this case, you want to map the variable “displ” to the x-axis, and the variable “hwy” to the y-axis. 

## Additional Resources:
For more information and guidance on using ggplot2, refer to the following resources:

[ggplot2 Documentation:](https://ggplot2.tidyverse.org/reference/) A comprehensive source of information on ggplot2 functions, including examples and descriptions.

[R Graphics Cookbook:](https://r-graphics.org/) A practical guide containing recipes for creating effective graphics using ggplot2.

To `cite ggplot2` in publications, please use the following reference:

```
Wickham H. (2016). ggplot2: Elegant Graphics for Data Analysis. Springer-Verlag New York. ISBN 978-3-319-24277-4.
```








