There are three basic aesthetic attributes to consider when creating ggplot2 visualizations in R: `color`, `size`, and `shape`. These attributes are essential tools for creating data visualizations with ggplot2 and are built directly into its code.

## Aesthetics in ggplot2

`Ggplot2` is an R package that allows you to create different types of data visualizations right in your R workspace. In ggplot2, an `aesthetic` is defined as a visual property of an object in your plot. 

Basic aesthetic attributes in ggplot2:

- `Color:` this allows you to change the color of all of the points on your plot, or the color of each data group
- `Size:` this allows you to change the size of the points on your plot by data group
- `Shape:` this allows you to change the shape of the points on your plot by data group

An example of how aesthetic attributes are displayed in R:

```r
ggplot(data, aes(x=distance, y= dep_delay, color=carrier, size=air_time, shape = carrier)) +
      geom_point()
```

## Geom Functions
In ggplot2, a geom is the geometrical object used to represent your data. Geoms include `points`, `bars`, `lines`, and more.

There are tons of geoms out there. Just pick one that fits how you wanna show your data and who you're talking to. This way, you can share your data story in various ways and make it work for different people.

- `geom_point:` uses points to create scatter plots.  
- `geom_ bar:` uses bars to create bar charts. We didn't supply a variable for the y-axis. R automatically counts how many times each x-value appears in the data, and then shows the counts on the y-axis.
```r
ggplot(data=diamonds)+
  geom_bar(mapping=aes(x=cut))
```
- `geom_line:` connects observations, ordered by x value. 
- `geom_smooth:` adds a trend line over an existing plot.
- `geom_jitter:` creates a scatter plot and then adds a small amount of random noise to each point in the plot. Jittering helps us deal with over-plotting, which happens when the data points in a plot overlap with each other. Jittering makes the points easier to find.

